DECIDED: Jun 11, 1956

Warren
Number 5 on the docket, United States of America versus E.I.du Pont de Nemours & Company. Mr. Weston.
Petitioner
If it please this Court. This suit was instituted late in 1947. The Government's complaint charged that du Pont had been monopolizing interstate commerce in cellophane from about 1923. The complaint made certain other charges that they are not material now. After a lieu trial, the District Court ruled that the evidence did not sustain any of the Government's charges. The Court gave several grounds for its rule. The one which is attracted the most attention is that du Pont did -- could not have monopoly power over trade in cellophane because it did not have monopoly control over trade in, what the Court called, “flexible packaging materials”. The Court also held that du Pont did not have power to exclude competitors that certain agreements which it had made which allocated market areas were not in illegal restraint of trade and that a product patent on a moistureproof cellophane which du Pont had and which was in existence 

...

Frankfurter
Before you move on to the conclusion of law, what are we to understand as the Government's position in regards to what I call findings of fact, do you challenge any of them or all of them or what?

...

of the competition, how it affected their business and what was going on. And this competition is a competition in both quality and in price. There is a constant effort to improve the quality of the material and a constant effort to lower its price. The finding show that in this period, du Pont is supposedly static monopolist with these powers met over $24 million dollars on research in the improvement of these different products and of developing ways of opening new markets and making them more acceptable to the trades where they were used. The other materials, glassine, wax papers are doing the same. There had been an intense quality competition, an intense competition in terms of the composite of properties, which is to be offered to the packages. And there has contrary of the suggestions from the -- Mr. Weston earlier this morning, had been intense price competition and I plan, Mr. Chief Justice, when I returned from -- when we return to discuss the price aspects of the competition in this deal.

---
JUSTICE VOTES:
Warren: Petitioner
Douglas: Petitioner
Black: Petitioner
Minton: Respondent
Burton: Respondent
Reed: Respondent
Frankfurter: Respondent

OUTCOME: Respondent won.
